---
id: 1923
title: Medicinal Mushrooms Can Change your Life
date: 2012-09-10T04:52:00+00:00
author: admin
layout: post
guid: http://www.nightskyillusions.com/?p=1923
permalink: /2012/09/10/medicinal-mushrooms-can-change-your-life/
categories:
  - Healthy Living
---
Containing numerous compounds that work with the cells of the immune system, medicinal mushrooms have been studied for their amazing ability to activate the immune system’s cells. In order to get the most amounts of the immune boosting compounds found in medicinal mushrooms, they must be grown on substrates with high levels of nutrients, the most nutrient dense one coming from Purple Kculli Corn. Because it has been proven that brightly colored fruits and vegetables have more antioxidant power than paler fruits and vegetables, the deep purple color of the Peru grown Purple Kculli Corn make the vegetable extremely healthy. After being harvested, the Purple Kculli Corn is naturally processed into an antioxidant-rich extract. When medicinal mushrooms are grown on this extract, the mushrooms produced contain incredible amounts of immune-boosting compounds. Similarly, when Purple Kculli Corn is added to medicinal mushroom formulas the antioxidant power increases.

The medicinal mushrooms help boost the immune system by making white blood cells more deadly so that they are able to defend the body against bacteria, viruses, and other pathogens that enter the body. Arabinogalactins and arabinoxylans are powerful polysaccharides that are found in medicinal mushrooms. They stimulate the immune system and increase the activity of interleukins, interferons, and a tumor necrosis factor, which are all important components in a healthy immune system. When taking medicinal Mushrooms containing high amounts of these polysaccharides, the result is a dramatic reduction in diseases. Four polysaccharides found in medicinal mushrooms are serious cancer fighters, including: Agaricus blazei (Agaricus), which contains the greatest number of medicinal compounds and a powerful anti-tumor polysaccharide that all other medicinal mushrooms are lacking, Grifola frondosa (Maitake), the most researched of all medicinal mushrooms, Coriolus versicolor (Coriolus or Turkey Tail), which shows great promise as cancer immunotherapy agents in all cancer stages, and Ganoderma lucidum (Reishi), which has been used medicinally for centuries and has been researched extensively.

These four types of mushrooms not only have incredible amounts of immune boosting polysaccharides, but also have a much higher ORAC (Oxygen Radical Absorbance Capacity) value than mushrooms grown on other substrates. The higher the power, the stronger the antioxidant is against free radicals, which are made by breathing oxygen and digesting food. However, the older we get, the more radicals we make. The more free radicals we make, the more destructive they can be to our membranes, cells, mitochondria, and DNA. If the production of free radicals is not stopped or slowed, it can lead to heart disease, arthritis, diabetes, dementia, and cancer. Because all brightly colored fruits and vegetables have very high ORAC values, they have greater antioxidant power, and a stronger resistance to free radicals.

Some mushroom supplements contain seven or more mushrooms. However, more is not always better. The makers of these supplements add modest amounts of many mushrooms, hoping to end up with a product that might have health benefits. The number and type of mushroom is not nearly as important as the substrate that the mushroom is grown on when achieving a supplement that offers great health benefits. To make sure the supplement contains natural and organic mushrooms grown on Purple Kculli Corn substrate, read the label. Make sure the medicinal mushroom formulas have a statement showing accreditation from a certifying agency and are grown without chemicals or pesticides. The growers must also be certified as organic mushroom producers and must keep a record of their production and handling practices. With a little help from Purple Kculli Corn, Agaricus, Maitake, Coriolus, and Reishi mushrooms can provide potent and powerful cancer preventing properties.